We are now on module number 17, which is about SOPs,
which, so p stands for Standard Operating Procedures.
This module is gonna be about documenting processes
so anyone can execute.
Meaning if you're hiring a manager
or somebody to work on your channel with you,
this SOP is pretty much gonna teach them how
to do your job, right?
The whole point of hiring people is
to automate the processes.
So take whatever you are doing.
It doesn't necessarily need to be all of it,
but whatever you want to offload.
Let's say you're working 20 hours a week on your channel,
and you wanna bring that down to 10 hours,
write out the 10 hours of work
that you're doing a week, right?
And this SOP is gonna explain in very high
detail what you do.
Um, and we're gonna go over how to create that SOP, how
to structure it and how to properly teach people
how to do their job.
So what is an SOP, right?
A standard operating procedure is a document
that explains exactly how to do a task, a step-by-step
so anyone can follow it and get the same result results.
Sorry. So here's why SOPs matter, right?
They train new team members without repeating yourself.
Meaning, if you're training multiple managers,
you don't have to hop on a call with one of them,
hop on a call with the next one.
If you're teaching two different people
where it's like their jobs overlap a little bit,
you don't need to do that because you have SOPs.
Uh, this is gonna maintain qu quality consistency.
So if you have one person
and then you need to fire them, hire somebody else.
If they're following the same SOP,
you shouldn't lose quality, right?
Replace team members without losing knowledge.
Same thing, right? It's not gonna,
you're not gonna have more questions
because your SOP should answer them.
So same thing if you're replacing people on your team,
the new person should be able
to understand what's going on due to the SOPs,
and they're both the old person,
the new person are learning from the same place.
And it's freeing up your time from training.
Like, although, you know, a lot of what I've written here,
they kind of overlap with each other, but it is true, right?
You're not like, you're not gonna have to waste time, um,
actually calling your people
that you're training your trainees,
whatever you wanna call them.
Here's how you actually go about writing your SOP
otherwise known as the standard operating procedures.
Uh, and here's the golden rule of SOPs.
Write your SOP
as if you were giving the task to a 3-year-old.
So write your SOP as if a three yearold needed
to follow the instructions in the document.
And if that three-year-old fails following the instructions
because your SOP wasn't clear enough, you get killed, right?
Not literally, but just take it that seriously.
Like you need to write a document so detailed
that a three-year-old can follow the instructions
and act as if there's stakes on the line.
If it's not detailed enough, then you know you got killed.
Like, not actually, but that's just what I wrote here to,
uh, that's just how detailed this SOP needs to be, right?
Oh, I even wrote that here actually.
That's how detailed it needs to be, right?
So here's the SOP format. Number one, a written document.
You can use either Google Docs or Notion.
If you don't know what notion is, just use Google Docs.
Um, notions like a little bit more clean version.
It's a little bit, uh, I guess easier
to use if you've used it in the past.
So if you know what notion is, go use a notion.
If you don't, just use Google Docs and just write
Every single step out.
Next thing you wanna do, once you write out every single
step, and I mean detail, think about all the work
that you do, because realistically,
SOPs typically replace work that you
as the channel owner are doing,
and you want to hand off that work to somebody else,
whether it's all the work you do
and the channel is gonna be fully automated,
whether it's 10% of the work, 20%, 50%,
however much of the work, whatever tasks
that you don't wanna do anymore,
and you wanna pay somebody to do it, it's up to you
to decide if, is it worth it?
Is it worth buying back my time for this?
Is it worth the price? Whatever.
Once you are ready to write this document,
what you wanna do is you wanna go through everything you do,
step one, step two, step three, step four, do all the steps
and go back into step one.
How can I make this as detailed as possible?
I'm explaining this, I wanna write this
as if I'm explaining it to somebody
who just learned the English language,
like someone you know is three
to five years old pretty much.
So you wanna, not necessarily the wording
and the grammar obviously, but you know what I mean.
It should be very simple to understand.
So once you wrote all out all the steps, you wanna go back
and then make all the steps more detailed, then go to the,
the detailed parts of the step
and be like, can I make this more detailed?
And just keep coming back to it?
Take a break, go back to it.
Uh, if you hear my cat meowing, sorry about that.
But pretty much you just wanna
make it as detailed as possible.
And once you do, so that's when you create a video tutorial.
I, I use O-B-S-O-B-S is just like a software.
I'm literally using OBS to record this right now,
but it doesn't have to be OBS,
but just record yourself doing the task.
So to better assist with the document,
you have a video of you going through the task.
So not only did you do step, let's say there's 10 steps,
you did steps, uh, one through 10,
and then each step has like three parts to it.
And then some of the steps have like four
or five parts to it, you realize,
'cause it needs to be even more detailed.
Um, and then you're just gonna sit through
and then you're gonna do a video tutorial
and you're gonna set, like, you wanna record it
with your microphone and have the document pulled up be
like, okay, first thing we're gonna be doing is step one
and pretty much you're just going
to narrate, we're doing step one.
And then you go do step one,
and then you go between back and forth.
So you wanna go back and forth between the document.
So you wanna put yourself in their shoes
as if you don't know what you're doing
and you're following the SOP.
That's kind of how you wanna record it,
because then that's gonna help them a lot
to understand what they need to be doing.
'cause you're putting yourself in their shoes
and you're, you know,
following along the document you created.
And that's how you can know why you're doing it.
Oh, did I leave something out of here?
And you can go back, fix it.
Rerecord, uh, this tutorial, right?
For recording the SOPs,
you wanna open the so p document you made.
Start either OBS recording or whatever.
Screen capture OBS is just pretty, uh, common.
And then pretend you're the new hire reading
the document for the first time.
Do each step as you read it.
Don't edit the recording, leave it raw.
You like if it, if it takes three hours to do the task,
it should be a three hour long recording, right?
Some SOPs end up being two plus hours long, and that's fine.
It's better two detailed than not enough, right?
And typically, just for anybody that's wondering,
I do pay the, uh, whatever whoever's working for me
to watch the SOP.
So if the SOP document, if I have the SOP document
And the video is, let's say three hours long,
I'll figure out with them like, Hey,
how much do you wanna be paid
for these three hours of training hours?
Typically I do like half an hour to review the document
and then however long the video is.
So if it's a two
and a half hour long
video, normally my SOPs aren't that long.
It's like ma long one
I've probably done is like an hour and a half.
So it's like hour and a half long SOP plus 30
minutes to review the document.
This is two hours. And then I'll pay them,
depending on the channel and how hard the task is,
I'll pay them like 20 an hour.
That's normally the lowest I do.
You can do, depending on who you're working with,
you could do less than that if necessary.
Um, and sometimes I'll do like up to 30
and I've just done like every number in between.
Sometimes it's like I've done like 23,
just depends on the person, how much I'm prepared
to pay them for the task, right?
If I'm prepared to pay them to do some crazy job
that I'm paying them like $30 an hour for,
I'm not gonna say, Hey, here, here's $10 an hour, uh,
30 bucks for, for, uh, three hours of work.
You know what I mean? So it kind of just depends.
But that's generalized how I do it. That's up to you.
And if the person you're working with doesn't, uh,
even wanna be paid for the training hours, that's fine.
Normally people don't ask me to get paid for it,
but I just feel like it's a good idea
to have good relations with people that work with you.
Like editors I worked with for a long
time, I always like ask that.
Like if I'm working with 'em for like six months,
I always just slide in like, Hey,
when's your birthday and stuff.
And I'll end up like sending, just sending them a bonus.
Like on the video they edit closest to their birthday,
I'll send a bonus or like on Christmas and stuff like that.
It's good to have good relation,
especially if your channels are doing good
and like you're making like 10,000 a month on your channel.
You're paying your, whoever's working for you,
like less than a thousand dollars a month to work on it.
Just for example, it's like, hey, you know,
on their birthday, you know, just send a few
hundred bucks or something like that.
Add a bonus to their pay.
That's just some personal things that I'd like to say.
And it definitely works out
because I, I noticed when I started doing that,
these people start, um, you know, being more attentive
to my work and they clearly have me
as a higher priority client.
So, so yeah, like I said, I typically pay them, uh,
for the training hours.
You don't have to, it's up to you.
These are just my recommendations
and I'm telling you what I personally do.
Uh, updating your SOP, right?
Sometimes the process for your channel changes,
whether it's like some new YouTube thing, the,
like, whatever the case is.
Uh, you realize there's like something, uh,
like the competitors in your niche are changing
how they do their content, whatever the case is.
If the process changes for whatever reason,
just redo the entire SOP.
You don't wanna be like, oh, well outta the 10 steps,
like three to seven is different.
So then you rerecord the new three to seven
and then you have to like make the SOP the old one to three
and edit it together and it just gets all over the place.
And although in theory that can work, I've done that before
and like rewatching SOPs that I've made like that, it kind
of just makes everything confusing.
'cause the whole point of making a super detailed SOP
and then going through and,
and recording yourself, you know, going through the SOP is
to make this as detailed as possible
and as clear as possible, right?
And there's no cuts in the SOP tutorial video.
And this makes it so that whoever's working
for you has the easiest time learning what to do.
And you want that to be the case.
'cause you don't want, want them to do a bad job, right?
That that'll hurt your channel. So if I say,
Like I'm saying, if your process changes,
just redo the entire SOP,
even if it took you hours to record, it's fine.
Don't be lazy and just quote unquote, update a few things.
Like half-assed SOPs are gonna create half asked work
from your employees, right?
So if you want this to be your full time income,
and I know I've said this a bunch, but it's true.
If you want this to be your full time income,
and I'm talking about like having YouTube
as your full-time income, then trade
it like a full-time job.
Don't do things like halfway, you know what I mean?
Um, and as for like how I just give the SOPs to people
that work for me, normally I just like upload I,
I'll create like a folder with a channel name
and I'll just write, so p
and I just upload the document in there
and I'll, I'll upload, uh, the video in there from OBS.
I'll just put it in there.
I'll put both the document
and the video inside the folder in the Google Drive
that's titled the name of the channel space, SOP.
And then I just share the link with, uh, whoever needs it.
And to anybody that's watching this far.
If you're in the inner circle, I'm planning on bill, uh,
creating some sort of SOP builder
to help you better create yours OP.
So if you are in the inner circles, you will get access
to the SOP builder tool,
which is gonna help you create more details and better SOPs.
And I believe that's pretty much it for this module.
I do have some old SOPs,
but unfortunately I recently deleted them
because I had too much space in my drive,
maybe like a week ago, uh,
because I forgot that I wanted to show it here.
But I think I went through this detail enough.
And if you go through this video again, it's not too crazy
to understand exactly how it should look and how to do.
It's like literally just a Google
doc and then you go through it.
Um, so it's not too complicated.
And I'll see you guys in the next module.